Jerry Michalski: Boss, would you like to be host.
Klaus Mager: Okay.
Jerry Michalski: Sounds good.
Jerry Michalski: Do with the call what you will, whatever whatever makes sense for you. And
Jerry Michalski: I will look at the recording later and post it. But thank you very much. I'm gonna go keep vacating.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Hey, Kate!
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Enjoy!
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Oh.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks.
Stacey Druss: Bye.
Klaus Mager: I'm jealous.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, truly.
Klaus Mager: It's such a wonderful place. Yeah. Wonderful culture.
Klaus Mager: Oh, so what are we doing today?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We're we're milling about.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Like my cat has
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: a uti, so there's she's peeing in the bathtub, and there's blood everywhere. That's where I'm at like. That's what's going on. It's just terrible.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh, golly!
Klaus Mager: Row too little time to
Klaus Mager: to get it together, and then maybe you can give us an update, Jesse, on what you're working on. I saw in the Plex a little story, but maybe you can let us know what's what's happening with you.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah, definitely, right now or later.
Klaus Mager: Yeah. Ready. Go for it.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Sure.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: So yeah, when you when you start a passion project that doesn't have an intention to make money, guess what happens. You don't make money, so that's where I'm at. I've loved every second of building this, and just, you know, when you give it away it becomes bigger than you
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: bigger than you.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and that's my favorite part of a project is when it becomes larger than the self and.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm muted.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: We're at that point. We have 400 people that are brilliant. Every single one of these people are amazing. They give gifts. I just talked with Dave over at Campfire and yesterday for a couple hours. And it was amazing because we both had a realization that
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: it's really not about getting your needs met. Necessarily. Obviously, that's like a given. You have to thrive.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: But it's all about.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: You have gifts. Give them our community needs them, and
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: we need. We need people's contribution to community in their local zip code and to the people that are surrounding them. And a lot of times we're living in this scarcity mode, and or we just don't have the resources to give. But we do. We always have something to give. So.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Jesse. Could. Jesse, could you summarize what this is, and what it does? And what's your vision for it?
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah. So what it does is it helps people 1st of all define how they thrive, and in that they can. That is partly their ikigai, what they what do, what they love, do what they, what they're good at, do, what the world needs that kind of thing.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Be that. And in that you're able to give back to your community. And so it's a matching system. So once you do, once you do that definition, you're immediately matched, you know your map, your your needs and your haves are mapped into the system. So then there's an automatic version of everyone getting matched up with each other's needs and haves. And it's a beautiful, self-sustaining ecosystem. And it's already happening. People are getting matched up.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: But yeah, it just needs a little bit of the next lift.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Damn!
Klaus Mager: Yeah, there are so many
Klaus Mager: of these initiatives you invent also,
Klaus Mager: that are that are trying to pull community members together and and assist people, and so on. But
Klaus Mager: my! My observation is a lot of it is fractured now it we're working on it. It is really a lack of coordination. And how in the world do you get into coordination on on things of that sort? Some communities have been able to pull together initiatives that engage everyone.
Klaus Mager: and you have to have finance in the middle of it somehow, because even when people invest, you know and donate their time and money. If it is not coordinated in some form, it just doesn't have the effectiveness that you're looking for.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: yeah, I love that. We're a talent solutions company. And we've we have a full, sophisticated talent management system on the back end. So people can, you know, post jobs for free and get matched to candidates for free. It is a talent system.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: So it's an economic resilience factor here. And it's just a matter of people, you know, sharing their jobs and building their teams. But we are pivoting to events. So those people that are already having, you know, a lot of participants come into their event or their community event. What happens? They they meet, and then they're really excited about doing things together, and they have a dinner, and they have music. And then what happens is the momentum subsides
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: after the event stops. I have noticed that
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: for all my life. That's what events do is they bring people together, and then there's not a mechanism to pull these people together consistently in between events, the annual events. So this is what that is now. And so we're pivoting to the event industry. So community leaders can really provide the in between mechanism.
Klaus Mager: So do you have found ways now to monetize this.
Klaus Mager: I'm sorry. It's a horrible work, I know, but I mean you. You have to. You have to make a living somehow, right?
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah. So the the money would hopefully go into the event industry, because there is there is money in the event industry. So to ask the event producer to give this opportunity for their participants to match up with each other instantly within the event and during the after the event. So it lives on.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I think that's where the money is gonna come from.
Klaus Mager: Hmm, okay.
Klaus Mager: Well, thank you.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah, thanks for asking.
Klaus Mager: So we have, Kyle. I saw a new face behind this screen.
Klaus Mager: Do you? Wanna do you? Wanna introduce yourself?
Klaus Mager: Hi! There.
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): Hello, Hello!
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): So is there a topic for today? Or just general introduction?
Klaus Mager: Which is talking. We haven't. We haven't found a topic yet.
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): Okay, so I'm a
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): been working on getting the well, following up from the sessions I had a couple of weeks ago, which was mostly people from this community that attended got a meeting this afternoon to talk with somebody about setting up a a Google
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): Workspace and things. And then
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): my thoughts are that have a have a Google group that would be for that
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): today's moonshots. But it gets into the whole, really, the whole goal. Things like
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): Jim Collins talks about big, hairy, audacious goals.
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): or whatever, too. I see there being a connection there. But I'll be working on putting some stuff together, and
Karl Hebenstreit, Jr. (Alexandria, VA): need to wrap up the last week of the term here, get some papers done by next Sunday, so, keeping myself busy there.
Klaus Mager: Alright.
Klaus Mager: Just called Mike. How are you doing.
Mike Nelson: Juggling many things, getting ready to head to Taipei, and then Manila
Mike Nelson: at the end of next week.
Mike Nelson: and then I'll have a 3 or 4 day stop in Seattle on the way home from Manila to see my folks.
Mike Nelson: Yeah.
Mike Nelson: my daughter's meeting me up there, and for the 1st time in more than a year and a half she'll get to see her. Her grandparents.
Klaus Mager: As well as.
Mike Nelson: Some of our of our old family friends. That'll be nice.
Klaus Mager: Cool.
Mike Nelson: But unfortunately, we just found out that some of the key people we wanted to meet in the Philippines are
Mike Nelson: are tied up so it's very frustrating when you're trying to organize these kind of long distance meetings, and everybody has, you know, 5 things going on at the same time. It used to be. You set up things 5 weeks in advance, and if you try to do that now, they inevitably cancel and reschedule. And you've got
Mike Nelson: i i i don't know if face to face meetings make any sense anymore.
Klaus Mager: In the age of Zoom. Can we ask what you're working on.
Mike Nelson: Well, in in Taipei I'm giving a keynote speech at the World Innovation Technology and Services Alliance.
Mike Nelson: It's about 50 national, it trade associations. They meet every year.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: What are you going to tell? Like.
Mike Nelson: Pardon me.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That sounds really cool. What are you going to tell them.
Mike Nelson: It's a talk on the need for digital leadership and political vision in the digital area. So it's a little bit what we did in the Clinton Administration back in starting in 1993,
Mike Nelson: you know, if you don't get the President, or at least the Vice President or the Prime minister
Mike Nelson: engaged, and at least saying a few things about where we're going.
Mike Nelson: Everybody tries to pull in 7 directions, and you don't get anywhere, or you get 7 different directions sent. Everybody's confused. And we're seeing more and more of that.
Mike Nelson: The most obvious example is in the area of encryption
Mike Nelson: where the police hate the idea of encryption.
Mike Nelson: cybersecurity, experts and privacy advocates feel it's essential to have end-to-end encryption.
Mike Nelson: So we kind of stumble along.
Mike Nelson: But there's many other places where you have these conflicts between agencies and interests, online copyrights, another one where
Mike Nelson: it's not just the AI companies that want to be able to share and easily reuse content.
Mike Nelson: Everybody, from librarians to scholars, to educators.
Mike Nelson: Don't think it's a good idea that somebody has to pay every time they want to use a sentence of somebody else's words.
Mike Nelson: But we just, we have no vision. We we have, or we have 7 visions. We have the pay per play
Mike Nelson: vision of certain people in the copyright industry who would redesign the Internet, take care, take
Mike Nelson: steps to make sure there's no anonymity, so everybody can be tracked and everybody can be charged when they download a Britney spears.
Klaus Mager: Wow!
Mike Nelson: But it's also going to be interesting because Taiwan is in a bit of a political.
Mike Nelson: I'm trying to think of the right word.
Mike Nelson: Things are a little unstable right now. There are a lot of different tension.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Why why should they be different than anybody else.
Mike Nelson: Well, they're different, because, unlike the Us. With its 3 branches of government, they have 5.
Mike Nelson: Oh, my! And and they're not all in the hands of the same party.
Mike Nelson: So it's a
Mike Nelson: it's an interesting time. Have any of you been to Manila? I've never been to Manila, so I'm curious. If anybody has any reflections on.
Mike Nelson: I'm not how to understand the place.
Klaus Mager: Oh, it's a very modern city. There's nothing, nothing unique about it.
Klaus Mager: I mean, if you have been in Singapore, you have, you know it's it's it's the same.
Klaus Mager: But I mean your your statement about lack of vision. That's really true for every corner of the of the place, isn't it? I mean.
Klaus Mager: there's there's just there's just so much conflict around any topic where. So how do you? How do you go in any direction? You're just thrilling.
Mike Nelson: Yeah, my focus is on the digital vision of the future and how to get people less scared and more excited.
Mike Nelson: We did that incredibly well in the nineties, and of course we had
Mike Nelson: companies spending hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars, over the course of 10 years to
Mike Nelson: paint the happy image of
Mike Nelson: apple books or macbooks that let you talk to grandma and digital libraries that schoolchildren in the most remote corners of the country could could use.
Mike Nelson: and we achieved a lot of that.
Mike Nelson: We also ended up with a lot of people abusing the system.
Mike Nelson: There is a vision that I've just
Mike Nelson: gotten very excited about one of my colleagues at the Carnegie Endowment has come out with a book called The Information Animal.
Mike Nelson: and it's all about taking an ecology approach to
Mike Nelson: the information environment that we work in.
Mike Nelson: so trying to understand all the different things that influence the information that we digest and all the things that affect how we interpret that information. Alicia Wanlis is brilliant, WANL. ESS. And this book is not getting nearly as much attention as it should.
Mike Nelson: I will put a link to the webcast that she just did for
Mike Nelson: There's a let me let me just see if I can pull it up quickly. There's a podcast
Mike Nelson: called spies and lies. I think it is, but very well done.
Mike Nelson: And yeah, no secrets, secrets and spies.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Mike Nelson: And
Doug Breitbart: I can't.
Mike Nelson: Rather than read the book you can. You can listen to this. It's it's it's 80 80 min. And
Mike Nelson: you, you can watch the 1st 5 min of highlights, but I encourage you to to dig a little deeper.
Klaus Mager: Thanks.
Mike Nelson: Did someone have a question? I heard the start of a question.
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, Mike, you start. You said all the things that influence the information we you were summarizing her.
Mike Nelson: Yeah, the information that we can have access to and how we react to that information.
Mike Nelson: A lot of that second part is cultural.
Mike Nelson: whether you trust the sources that you rely on, or unfortunately, we've
Mike Nelson: given people in many, many countries very little reason to trust any about anything about anybody
Mike Nelson: from anybody. So we have all the conspiracy theories, and she spends a lot of time on conspiracy theories.
Mike Nelson: She started life, or she started her
Mike Nelson: a career, getting a degree in Russian and back, then
Mike Nelson: back. Then, you know, everything was peace and harmony, and the Cold War was over, and they were actually closing down Russian programs because nobody was taking
Mike Nelson: Russian language. Certainly the advanced Russian language courses. But she stuck with it. And, thank God, she did.
Mike Nelson: since they're doing such a great job of sharing of, you know, all sorts of crap and not just in English. Obviously they use Russian to reach a lot of audiences
Mike Nelson: from the Russian speakers in Estonia and Lithuania to Russian speakers in Central Asia.
Mike Nelson: and of course Putin has completely brainwashed his own people. He's had 35 years to do that.
Mike Nelson: although they must be getting a little bit upset, I mean, when every family knows somebody who was sent off to Ukraine and come back dead or wounded.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Doug Breitbart: You know. I I just had a conversation, you know, conversation with some colleagues about
Doug Breitbart: our our challenge with AI
Doug Breitbart: It's sort of the cotton candy, of cognition.
Mike Nelson: Hmm.
Doug Breitbart: Where it looks like it makes sense. It seems to convey meaning
Doug Breitbart: but it sort of evaporates
Doug Breitbart: and and lacks mortality and depth and
Doug Breitbart: actual nuance and understanding, because the underlying machinery and mechanism
Doug Breitbart: is basically a glorified advanced text recognition word processor on steroids, not something that actually has understanding or meaning involved in that.
Doug Breitbart: And this, it's popping up. The reason it it's sort of
Doug Breitbart: is a dimension of this same domain that your colleague is in right, because there's the on a on a course level.
Doug Breitbart: There's the interface of people with bad information and propaganda, you know, propaganda and and and and and
Doug Breitbart: and stuff designed to manipulate and influence and and deceive
Doug Breitbart: but on a more subtle and fine-tuned level the same
Doug Breitbart: operand is at work in AI.
Mike Nelson: Hmm, okay, do you have you
Mike Nelson: trademark? That phrase? Yet is make sure, I got that right the cotton candy of information, or the cotton.
Doug Breitbart: No, the the cotton candy of cognition, immation.
Mike Nelson: Of writing meets cognition. Yeah, quite brilliant. Actually, yeah,
Doug Breitbart: But you know where our our offerings are in the human, touchy-feely energetic spaces and dynamics, by in between people
Doug Breitbart: and
Doug Breitbart: where challenges and problems can be mapped back to that domain, and how we can help, you know, help
Doug Breitbart: people co-creating together, and organizations.
Doug Breitbart: Clear the blocks and and restore flow and
Doug Breitbart: and and and connection on a living basis between people and
Doug Breitbart: And at this point, every time we
Doug Breitbart: we can viscerally, and I think this is true on a pretty wide level
Doug Breitbart: that we can viscerally tell within a sentence whether
Doug Breitbart: AI has been used to generate it.
Doug Breitbart: And and if it tips over 1520%
Doug Breitbart: of just like cleaning grammar, and or, you know, doing advanced word processing function, if it tips over that into actual purporting to be content.
Doug Breitbart: we immediately reject it, and stop reading.
Mike Nelson: Tech dirt blogs, I mean, he just he had a wonderful tweet just recently, where he said somebody was responding to what Grok said about itself, you know. He had asked. Somebody had asked, Well, what what do you? What do you feel about this?
Mike Nelson: And it came back with some structured, you know, content.
Mike Nelson: That had no meaning, and and Mike was just like, let me let me do it again here, right?
Mike Nelson: Maybe working. I think I need to remind you that an AI program has no self awareness. It has no knowledge of how it was built, or you know what what it does. It does not test itself.
Doug Breitbart: There's no sentence.
Mike Nelson: Is simply.
Doug Breitbart: Hey, guys.
Mike Nelson: Whatever paragraph looks good because it answers the question. And so, if you ask it, how do you feel about X?
Mike Nelson: It goes out and finds somebody else's answer to that question.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Mike Nelson: Stacey over to you.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, Stacy.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, I just wanted to say for those of us who think that we need a certain degree of deconstructivist thinking, if that's a correct word.
Stacey Druss: I just want to point out that AI can be helpful in its cotton candy like thinking, and what I mean by that is, I often use AI to help break down
Stacey Druss: other people's conversations that don't make sense to me. So, for example, there was a really interesting thread in Ogm that had to do with it was Jack's thread, and I did something similar to what Kevin did, which was to feed in an entire call
Stacey Druss: and to listen to it, back on a podcast
Stacey Druss: and the fact that what it spit out to me
Stacey Druss: and I'll use the term cotton candy, because maybe that's what it was.
Stacey Druss: but that openness to me made perfect sense, and allowed for the space
Stacey Druss: to put in my own ideas of where I think things could be shifted.
Stacey Druss: which is a good thing, because, to my thinking, that may be removing some of the bias
Stacey Druss: that's so inherent in our society.
Stacey Druss: So I just wanted to point out that while I don't like the idea of AI creating.
Stacey Druss: I do like the idea of AI evaluating over.
Klaus Mager: Thanks. Still, yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Stacey Druss: Helping to evaluate, helping.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Hi, everybody!
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I love the phrase cotton candy
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: hang on a second. Why can't I see anybody?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm sorry I'm on pad, so I'm a little discombobulated here.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Speaker view. Okay? Well, anyway.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I love the phrase cotton candy of cognition, and you've heard me talk before about my strong opinions about the lack of cognitive
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: lack of consciousness and caring in these creatures.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Excuse me, but I'm finding them enormously useful.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, Doug, you said
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you said, if it crossed over 15 to 20% we discounted. Who is the we that you're referring to is that.
Doug Breitbart: No, I I am my colleagues. We're all we've all developed sort of AI spidey sense.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which is good. So I'm I'm going to send you some stuff. I'm going to send you some test samples
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: cause the stuff that I'm
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: the stuff that I'm seeing, and I guess the stuff that I'm generating is is
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: feels really useful to me.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Passes the crap and simplicity test. I mean, I know that it's working a stochastic parrot.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: but with a high degree of skill, you know, to Stacy's point about breaking down conversations. I just did something yesterday where I put
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: 5 times 50, 20. I put like a hundred hours, of coursework.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Actually not the chore, not the audio. I put the decks for a hundred hours, of coursework into Google
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: notebook Llm.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And asked for the podcast thing that it spits out, which are, you know, which are typically 10 min long and typically, fairly clever and always the same voices and the same tone in and out. But anyway, this thing did a 50 min podcast
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: that I thought was remarkable
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: in its nuance structure. The 1st thing I did with with notebook Lm, when it 1st came out was I dropped in the declaration of leadership for sustainable business, which is a poster that I did
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: 20 years ago. Trying to.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It was my distillation of the essence of that game and
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: it produced a podcast that was number one. Interesting
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: number 2, pretty pretty true to the content. So that's the author's my judgment of that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and startling in inferences that it delivered that were not on the page.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: which, if I think about it, was also a stochastic parrot game, because it went into its vast resource of everything else, and found associated.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But what it produced was actually useful.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: My judgment as author, as you know, could I give this to somebody and be happy with what it provoked for them. Yes, I would have
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and it it reminds me, Doug, of the early days of desktop publishing.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you know, when all of a sudden we had, you know, everybody had this graphic capability in their hands.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and no surprise. Most of what most people produced was crap.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you know, like I can. Now I can make a flyer that has 15 fonts on it like yay.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: but I really shouldn't.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And there was thought, because, you know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: because that just doesn't work. And it takes actually some nuance and judgment and skill. And we thought that it would put graphic designers out of business, but in fact, it hasn't.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and my favorite graphic designers are completely teched out and use all the whiz bang tools. They get their hands on to enhance their capability and design judgment, and so forth. So you have this. You have this kind of, I think there's 2 worlds happening. One of which
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: is, you know, is, is people unskillfully using power tools.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know you don't. You don't. You don't put the table saw in the hands of your four-year-old.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know you don't hand the keys to your Aston Martin to your to your 15 year old.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and there is skillful use of tools that becomes possible. I don't know if I shared the gene roddenberry story with you guys before, but so stop me if you've heard it. But apparently somebody came up to Roddenberry at a cocktail party and said, Mr. Roddenberry, you know
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I really enjoy Star Trek, but 98% of it is crap
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and Roddenberry, without missing a beat, said, Yeah, but 98% of everything is crap.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So that's that's my story. On that.
Doug Breitbart: Klaus, if I can just interject, I'm not in in sharing what I shared. It's not a condemnation of AI
Doug Breitbart: as a tool.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Doug Breitbart: It's it's a condemnation of AI as a source.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: As a what.
Doug Breitbart: As source.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But but I say to folks, dodge a second.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Good.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm with you. I say, this is, you know, this is this is a tool. It's not an oracle.
Doug Breitbart: Right.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's not a source of truth. I have people, you know, we all see it. People say. Well, the AI said, as if that really matters, you know. It's you know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: everybody's got an opinion, including an AI.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I I think I was just in that same in that same
Klaus Mager: mode here. I was doing a presentation yesterday to this copy. It's a European based
Klaus Mager: organization that does project work for the World Bank and and
Klaus Mager: governments, you know, for regenerative investing. And there are multiple groups there. This one particular group has 3,000 members, mostly volunteers focused on the food system. And so they are working in Africa and in in Asia and Europe. And I had
Klaus Mager: a meeting with one of their founders and ask them, give me into to represent to present food with thought. You know the the AI system that I've developed.
Klaus Mager: and I asked them, give me a challenge, you know. Give me, you know, a problem you're working on and let me respond. Let let me respond through my AI system.
Klaus Mager: and apparently I came through with flying colors on that it was a series where you had an iceberg model that transitioned into a phase, 2 into a presencing explanation. I did an llm podcast out of it.
Klaus Mager: You know, one report generated this 30 min podcast that was, you know, very detailed and really quiet.
Klaus Mager: quite impressive there in the way they framed this. So yesterday, we had a meeting with their team. They put the whole team together, and we thought I thought we my daughter and I. You know she's doing marketing and branding.
Klaus Mager: So I thought we were just talking about how can we, you know, develop a pilot and contract this thing and so on.
Klaus Mager: But we ran into this trust issue. You know. I mean they they. I run into this puzzle of the How are you programming this thing?
Klaus Mager: So I had, I explained, the idea of curating your AI to be a vertical embedded in a database that is trustworthy, right that where you have vetted personally the information that goes into this thing they couldn't get beyond this, you know. How do you?
Klaus Mager: The I mean, the obvious thing that you want to do is engage with this? AI ask it all kinds of questions. You know. How are you programmed? How do you think about this? And and just or ask it? The question that you know the answer to, you know, and then see what comes out of it.
Klaus Mager: I can't disclose how I programmed it. I mean, that's my black box right?
Klaus Mager: but it was yeah. So now I have to figure out how to follow up on this thing. But if I really crashed
Klaus Mager: on the trust issue.
Klaus Mager: you know. Why would we trust you to curate an AI that we should work with and and base our, you know our decision making on. That's a huge that's a huge challenge. But I truly think that the idea of of having a curated AI, not just the the base. But no matter what whether you work with Gemini or Openai, or whatever
Klaus Mager: you need to frame this thing, you know, you need to put it into a box and and feed it.
Klaus Mager: You know the the information you really wanted to work with when they asked me, What why does your AI know more about what is regenerative agriculture, and why should we trust it? I said, well, I mean it has consensus opinion.
Klaus Mager: and then go. Well, what is consensus opinion. It should be hierarchical. Right? There should be a hierarchy in. I said, Yeah, maybe. But if you take the Hotel Institute and the Soil Health Institute and the extensions. And and you put all that together. There actually is agreement across the board on what constitutes soil health? Right?
Klaus Mager: It it was. I mean, it's a it's a stock, you know.
Doug Breitbart: So, so.
Mike Nelson: Elon Musk showed what can be done to manipulate an AI and make spit out things about white genocide in South Africa, so knows that example. So the.
Doug Breitbart: So so, Klaus, what if?
Doug Breitbart: What if you you don't mention AI at all?
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I don't know.
Doug Breitbart: Provide you provide a consultancy. You provide an expertise service.
Klaus Mager: Yeah.
Doug Breitbart: But it's actually you.
Klaus Mager: I wasn't able to get. That was my mistake. I should have said, Look, I'm I'm 40 years.
Doug Breitbart: This.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, that's fine.
Doug Breitbart: It's all about who's driving. It's not about the vehicle.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You can, Klaus, you can. Still, you can still, Klaus, you can still do that.
Doug Breitbart: Yes, absolutely like you can pull it back and like just.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And how many, how many people know what you've done already. Just pull it back, Rebrand. It.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And you and your army of assistants.
Doug Breitbart: And and you've got this wonderful ability to use it internally
Doug Breitbart: for very low horsepower. High quality, automated output of response to client questions, needs whatever, but they don't need to drive.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, they just want the output.
Doug Breitbart: It definitely was a learning experience.
Doug Breitbart: And yeah, yeah, I understand in the, in the, in the Wall Street world, it's all AI, everything.
Doug Breitbart: But you know, from a from a business entrepreneurial place
Doug Breitbart: it's about, you know, meeting needs and delivering quality goods.
Klaus Mager: Yeah.
Mike Nelson: Even Dom.
Doug Breitbart: Yeah. At the end of the day.
Mike Nelson: Even Donald Trump has said that artificial intelligence is a terrible.
Mike Nelson: terrible catchphrase, so I suggest that you call it cloned Klaus.
Klaus Mager: Oh! And eat the meaning.
Mike Nelson: I think Jesse's been waiting to say something.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've been thinking I've been thinking of this thing as an exoskeleton.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That's how I use. That's how I use it. And
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and I. Somebody saw somebody post a piece yesterday with the bottom. It said, FM. AI
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: formed mindfully with AI as their disclosure of co-authorship.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But, Klaus, you know, Klaus, you're not. You're not peddling an AI. You're competing with Mckinsey.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and you've got an army of postdocs and research assistants and versions of you and accumulated experience. And it is available through you.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That sounds like an offer.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you. Yeah, I know that's good feedback. Yeah, yeah.
Klaus Mager: Jesse.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Thank you. I'd like to go back to Stacey's notion of bias.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: which I actually think stems from trust.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and Mike, noting his and the AI using it for inferences.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And we use AI and Day balancer to really define a problem space leveraging the the mom test. And
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: we really don't have a lack of visions
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: like everyone has a vision, and you can see it right. And what we don't like to do is disprove our hypotheses of how to manifest that or address these big, wicked problems.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: so we match people to with their target market to really ask those deeper questions of their of their customers. You know of their the people that they want to serve so. And they find out that the youth
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: crime problem is really about an after-school programming in a specific neighborhood.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And so yeah, using AI for
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: for getting to the problem space and defining a very clear space to act on. And instead of you know, we can get into analysis paralysis using AI to just
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: stay in the moral theater part. So getting to that actionable problem is really key.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: But yeah, I love what Stacey is talking about with bias, because and how that I see that as stemming from trust.
Klaus Mager: Thanks. Yeah.
Klaus Mager: Thanks. Jesse.
Klaus Mager: Hi ken.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Good morning!
Klaus Mager: Good morning, Kevin. Let's hear from you. You have so much going on in your life here.
Kevin Jones: You? Yeah, we are.
Kevin Jones: in working on this conference. In Chicago
Kevin Jones: Neighborhood Economics end of September 1st of October, and we've been noticed
Kevin Jones: by several coalitions of hospitals doing the work we do
Kevin Jones: at much greater scale than we had, because we got involved
Kevin Jones: with the Macarthur Foundation, which is based there. But they're doing local and Chicago trust, and
Kevin Jones: everybody's really opening up to us. And
Kevin Jones: So these hospitals work on community health. But they don't really understand. You know how financial innovation can get their money out on the street
Kevin Jones: lower than the you know, Cdfis, are these wonderful things that don't work community development financing institutions. They become
Kevin Jones: a lot like banks, but they used to be community development finance institutions. But
Kevin Jones: after 2,008 they swallowed all the clever risk taking ones. So now they're rigid and and don't do much. And so all the creativity is down below
Kevin Jones: the collateral that they demand working in. We work in neighborhoods where people die 10 years younger, actually in one neighborhood. In Chicago they die 20 years younger than the loop is 88, and we work in neighborhoods where people die at 58.
Kevin Jones: So it's a no. Anyway, it's 2020 years and we're having to like.
Kevin Jones: I mean, just personally, it's like, Oh, this is where we could get an actual big viable business. Oh, this is my last time to do it. I'm hoping the young people step up.
Kevin Jones: But you know, it's just. I'm immersed with the fact that
Kevin Jones: finally figured out what this business should be when I'm ready to hand it to somebody younger.
Kevin Jones: And none of those folks are right
Kevin Jones: are are really stepping up. So it's we're gonna make some money, and who knows what the future is? You know it's gonna be fine with me to go back to working on a book
Kevin Jones: if this business doesn't survive. But I know what the model looks like. So we're looking to, maybe
Kevin Jones: working with this black woman that I've worked with for a few years, Stephanie Sweptson 20 to try to find some young
Kevin Jones: Mba type. The space I work when is typically I scout on the edge until you can hire an Mba and Mbas are not. You don't want them to be creative. You want them to do complex, repetitive tasks when there's a taxonomy
Kevin Jones: and their structure, and they they work really well in structure, but they don't work well in unformed situations.
Kevin Jones: So it's time to find a young, you know.
Kevin Jones: Mba of color to build the business that could be here.
Kevin Jones: or it might go away. I'm just having to live in this liminal space. I'm sorry I'm we're finally moving into an apartment post to lead end of next month, because we're still no, don't know what Fema is gonna do for paying our house or not paying for our house. So we're
Kevin Jones: we. I've been in a liminal state, and next week I will live somewhere.
Kevin Jones: and we through this weird pricing. We have an 11 month lease because
Kevin Jones: they're really weird on their pricing. And 11 month was really cheap, and a 12 month was like $5,000 more. So it's like.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Hmm.
Kevin Jones: We? We manipulated their inefficient pricing, and found the little slot.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I discovered I wanna don't want to live on a farm anymore. I want to live walkable to a cafe and restaurants.
Kevin Jones: And easy, flat walking spaces.
Kevin Jones: And so
Kevin Jones: so, my! My 15 years on a farm when I loved it. But you know, whoever took it away, and
Kevin Jones: being in a place where I can walk to a store
Kevin Jones: and a cafe in a restaurant is better. So
Kevin Jones: yeah, it's weird to have finally figured out what the business model is, and realize you're not the guy to do it.
Kevin Jones: So you know, I don't know.
Klaus Mager: How's the recovery effort in Asheville going.
Kevin Jones: Oh, the money they promised isn't coming, that's you know it's
Kevin Jones: and nobody knows where it is. And and you know it's it's
Kevin Jones: how much this the State is doing really good things and
Kevin Jones: everything we relied on from the Federal Government.
Kevin Jones: You can't. There's not even somebody to tell you an answer to where the money they promised might be.
Kevin Jones: It's just a you know, and Fema folks are now doing immigration. So finding somebody answers, the phone is
Kevin Jones: you know it's it's we will be devastated for years, and you know the the our, our our State does as good as they can.
Kevin Jones: and the federal thing is, is is in an uncertain state.
Kevin Jones: So we're getting lots more floods because the land was scoured. And there's no good, you know. Bioremediation at scale.
Kevin Jones: Oh.
Kevin Jones: and but Riverlink is getting some money, you know. There's some things happening, but it's it's basically piecemeal, not going well. People are miserable. People are moving away from
Kevin Jones: specifically, Swan and ow, who were deeply involved.
Kevin Jones: Because it's just so fucking sad. And I I'm not going back this one at all. It's
Kevin Jones: the devastation and sadness
Kevin Jones: in the trauma that's in the land that you can see. It's just too much. I'm getting away.
Kevin Jones: So I'm going to the city, and
Kevin Jones: I was really involved in my community. And just you know, people can't bear it. The woman who did the best relief work of death. Trigg is in the south of France for 2 weeks, and hope she might be able to engage some when she comes back, that she's got
Kevin Jones: more firm compassion than anybody, and she's given up for a while. So people are giving up. We don't have a grocery store. We don't have a post office. Our restaurants are gone. There's no, you know. Austin says you need a place where people meet up occasionally randomly, to govern a watershed or a community. We don't. We've lost all those places where people gather
Kevin Jones: mostly.
Kevin Jones: And so, you know, it's it's a
Kevin Jones: we're a low status neighborhood that will be
Kevin Jones: increasingly devastated in its social fabric.
Klaus Mager: Hmm, boy, that's tough.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, I just I I can't deal with it much, you know, just
Kevin Jones: even the the folks who were
Kevin Jones: real seriously compassionate long time workers are saying, you know, we
Kevin Jones: the the sadness is coming up at throat level, you know. It's just
Kevin Jones: about to make folks grind in the sadness. So that's all I'll say, and please don't ask me again.
Mike Nelson: I know you don't have any data. But what percentage of the population in these most impacted areas have left town and given up.
Kevin Jones: I know folks who were deeply involved who've left is the interesting thing. Folks who were standing tall during recovery
Kevin Jones: are walking away, you know the the mutual aid groups are broken, the all the groups that were paid a little bit higher than mutual aid are also broke.
Kevin Jones: The voluntary mutual aid groups shut down.
Kevin Jones: And now the ones that got
Kevin Jones: money to do that and work in the middle
Kevin Jones: can't deal with the job anymore.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Klaus Mager: I mean just saying, this is just one spot in the country, and there's so many other places now that I have that have had similar levels of destruction. I mean, it's really shocking.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, we have serious workout going on with some groups trying to do circular economy stuff. And you know.
Kevin Jones: I'm gonna let somebody else be hopeful about what to rebuild
Kevin Jones: in that space. And I'm I'm not gonna I I can't pay attention to it anymore. It costs too much.
Klaus Mager: Hmm, thanks, Kevin.
Klaus Mager: Kalia, how are you doing?
Klaus Mager: So? That's where that is, are you? Are you there? Talia?
Klaus Mager: Nope.
Mike Nelson: Must have stepped away.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, okay, and how are you doing? You wanna do a check in.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Sure. Kevin, I'm just moved by your point.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: and I really feel that pain and and just
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: tragic doesn't even begin to cover it, you know. Just horrible
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: After 3 months of trying almost every day, we finally got an appointment at the Spanish Consulate for our visas.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: It's coming up in September, and then learned this week from somebody who got their appointment last week. They were kind enough to put up a
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: long document on one of the forums of what they learned. So I think we're in pretty good shape. We should be able to get approved, but it's taken about 3 months. So if all goes well, we're pulling up stakes here December, January timeframe, and heading off to Spain to Valencia, where we will live within walking distance of grocery stores and restaurants and cafes. We were in Valencia last spring in April.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Really loved it. I'm very surprised because I'm not a
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I'm not a city person. But the city is clean, it's green. There's lovely parks
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: really great use of tax dollars. Every day I saw groups of 2 and 3 people pushing carts with barrels and dustpans and brooms, and they were cleaning up the litter. The only place I saw litter was in the old city where the tourists go because the tourists just drop shit without thinking about it. But the Spaniards are very clean
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: in apparently in the nineties. They were kind of down at the heels, and they did a lot of urban planning, and they they expanded the roads and put in dedicated bike lanes with, you know, barriers. And so there's bike lanes on every single major street.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: lots of people on bikes, lots of people on scooters, the public transit you can get anywhere you need to go in the city without having to walk more than about 10 or 15 min to go from some place to another. As long as you tag on and within, you know, if you get on a bus and then transfer to a tram as you do that within an hour, there's no transfers. Just automatically. The computer knows it as one trip.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: and to recharge the card that we got was €10 for no, it's €4 for 10 trips. So it's about 40 cents to travel around the city. Just it felt so civilized.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And then I noticed that the the drivers are really courteous, like, you know.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: don't run red lights. They actually stop when their light turns yellow they stop, and we have a friend who lives there. And we were driving with them and found out why there's traffic cams at every intersection, and if you run a light you get a ticket in the mail and you get 3 of them. They suspend your license. So people really obey the traffic laws.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: We were also there during the blackout, when the whole peninsula was blacked out, and all the headlines in the papers are saying, Spain's in chaos. There was no chaos. Civilians got out of their cars and directed traffic at the intersections, buses. Let other cars go.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: restaurants were saying, we have no refrigeration. Come, drink our beer before it gets warm, you know, and I was talking to this
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: young woman, probably in her early twenties. Later on at night, right before the power came on her at a restaurant, that that there was no power but they had gas stoves so they could serve
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: food, and she said, I got off the train like 10 min before the power went out, and I was trying to get to my friend's house, and the power went out, and all I had was €8 in my pocket, and the cab driver said, No, no, Problema, no Problema, you know. And he said, just here's my phone number. Pay me when the power comes back on. And he drove her across the city, and I'm like.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: It was so uplifting to be around this kind of of
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: friendliness and this kind of of cooperation. And and so we're really looking forward to to getting over there, because
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: after 35 years in Marin, as much as I love the place.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: people are horribly aggressive drivers out here. They turn their backs on people. It's not the same place that that we moved to.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So many trees have been cut down, so much development's gone on, and you know it's a it's a hyperactive place, and
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: the worst drivers in the world are the ones in the Teslas. You know. The the newer your car, the more expensive the car, the more of an asshole you are when you drive is my experience. So we'll be able to live without a car over there, and we'll be able to live about
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: oof between
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: half and 2 thirds of the cost of living. 2 thirds would be like really living well. So it's going to cost about half of what it lives here which will help our retirement savings go a long way. So we're pretty excited, but it's a huge amount of work. And it's been
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: really emotional going through. You know, all these boxes that I've had stored and pulling out things and saying, Okay, I'm not going to bring this with me, and that's going to go. So that's really brought up a lot of a lot of stuff. And
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: so it's it's daunting and exciting, and and lovely and and scary, all at the same time.
Mike Nelson: What's what's the city?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Valencia.
Mike Nelson: Valencia. Okay, I didn't catch that. We have very good friends who were all set to make the same kind of move. They're about 10 years older than you.
Mike Nelson: But then they found out that
Mike Nelson: they they knew they needed to have health insurance, and they knew that Medicare doesn't cover them over there.
Mike Nelson: and they found it because the husband had had prostate cancer
Mike Nelson: pre-existing condition. Nobody would insure them, for no any kind of reasonable price.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: That's I'm really sorry to hear that we worked with a
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: a woman who said, Yes, if you have pre-existing conditions, you know, disclose them, but you might pay higher premium. And so we've we've got a quote we've got, you know. It's we're not buying the insurance until right before our our appointment. It takes about 2 weeks to get the paperwork processed, because you have to pay for the whole year in advance, but you can delay it by a couple of months, and
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: so we know that we're covered. They've they've already accepted us, and
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: filling out the questionnaire was amazing like they do not check your Us. Health records. They depend. They rely on you to just be disclosing what's going on. And fortunately, whatever pre-existing conditions we both have are not serious. They're, you know, kind of regular old stuff, no cancers and everything like that. So.
Mike Nelson: If you were not to disclose, and then something recurred.
Mike Nelson: they would have the right to unplug.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: They would, they would.
Mike Nelson: Okay. Delight.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And how old are you guys.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: My wife is 72. I'm 68.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay? And so does Medicare. Do you any good at all?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Not at all. Medicare does not work outside the state. So actually.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Where you'd have to. You'd have to come back to the States to get treatment kind of thing.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Yeah. But why would we do that? We could get great treatment over there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I understand. I understand. Yeah. So.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: We're actually gonna cancel our medicare because we each pay $185 a month, and
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: that will just about cover the cost of insurance. I think it's about $2,000 a person per year. So you know, it's really reasonable compared to what we used to pay. I mean before I went on Medicare.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: when I went on Medicare, my health insurance premiums dropped by $9,000 a year. Yeah, which is just freaking insane, you know. Yeah,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: so yeah, we're once we get there, we'll cancel our medicare. That'll cover our health insurance over there. And the non-locrative visa means you can't work. It's interesting the way the law is written. It says you can't work in Spain, and you can't work remotely. But people who've been there once you've been there for a year, you re-up, and you're approved for 2 years, and people who've been approved for that 2 year period have done work remotely, and the Government's gone after them. They've gone to court, and they've won the right because the law is worded very
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: locally, so I should be able to work again after I've been there for a year. So, looking forward to a year off, of learning the language and the culture, and getting used to the place, and then I have a bunch of contacts in Europe. I've worked in Europe before, so I should be able to pick up some more income once we've been there for a year, and that'll also help.
Mike Nelson: So you're not a retiree visa. Then.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: It's called the non-lucrative visa. And it's for people who are retired. Yeah, I have to submit a letter saying, I will not work.
Mike Nelson: Okay.
Klaus Mager: Hmm! So this is permanent. Huh?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: This is permanent. Yeah, we it's not. We started talking about this 3 years ago when we thought we'd go to Italy and then found out that Italy's tax structure would take about 32% of our social security which made it untenable. It's not due to the political atmosphere. It's simply economics, you know. I can't stay in the barrier. It's too expensive. However, given the political situation, it feels like we're actually fleeing the country, the police state is in full force and unfolding before our eyes, and like.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I think, most people were asleep about that, so
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: happy to be getting out and sad to be
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: having to leave because of that reason. That's not the reason leaving, but it's it's certainly added to it.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, yeah.
Mike Nelson: And which which passport do you or your wife have.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Us.
Mike Nelson: You don't have any European passport.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Nope.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: my, we're both, you know my family has been here for, like I don't know 5, 6 generations going back to the mid eighties, so I have no, and it's all English, Irish, Scottish, and German for me, and my wife has some
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Polish and Romanian, and her great grandmother was from Romania so she could get a Romanian passport. But she was investigating, she said, they're just really shady in Romania. It's like, you know. You get this feeling of. Oh, I gotta take a shower after talking to these people, you know, like.
Mike Nelson: I don't think we're gonna go that route.
Mike Nelson: It may not be the personal brand you want.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: No, no, lisa's not Serbian.
Mike Nelson: Albanian.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Yeah.
Klaus Mager: Hmm Jesse.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Has anybody ken? Have you heard of Mondragon?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Okay, of course, yeah, I absolutely am so inspired by that. And.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And positioning our our organization to to do that in a way and a different way. So I
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I would want to flee there and into that model.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah, so I'm I'm curious. What is the stopping us to create something like that here.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I know it's.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Socioeconomic political structure, I know, but like
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: under under cover, kind of like, I don't know. I I always look at possibilities and not what's not possible. So.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Yeah, yeah, I mean, it's just the way things are structured. Here is if you're not
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: maximizing shareholder value, then you can be sued for breach of fiduciary duty. You know it's all about extraction. There's a whole.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Different models like Rei or Pcc. That have cooperative models that have worked so can't we scale that into a more?
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I don't know why not.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Barriers to entry is the economic phrase.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Mike Nelson: But there are some.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Why? Why?
Mike Nelson: Co. Ops, but they don't apply in a lot of places. That's the problem.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Why not? Why can't we? Is a much better question, Jesse, than why isn't it happening.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah, well, like it, can't. We? Is really what I'm getting at, because I'm talking to.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, I mean no. What you're what you're trying to. What you're actually saying is, how could we.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: How could we.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Not? Why can't we? But how could we? Yeah, exactly that. And you know, and it's happening. It's, you know, there, there's growth in the Esop Employee stock ownership plan sector. There's growth in the Co-OP sector. There's a surprising growth in in the Stewardship Trust sector.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There are. There are legal structures more advantageous for esops than for co-ops, but the law seems to be moving. There's money moving. There's a lot. There's a bunch of funds that have been built
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: to support Co-OP and Esop, various kinds of employee ownership and trust development. We tried to start one a few years ago. We've laid that down. But there's other people making that effort. There's hundreds hundreds of millions of dollars, maybe billions of dollars of capital in motion on this, and it's not the normal game, but it doesn't have to be the normal game because you can. You can write corporate bylaws that charter a corporation to different purposes and purely maximization of financial return.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The other thing, Ken, to your point about fiduciary duty.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've been touching on this in some of the speeches I've been giving lately, but fiduciary duty
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: doesn't mean maximize return to shareholders. Fiduciary doesn't the word fiduciary doesn't have to do with money. It has to do with trust.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and the and the statutory responsibility of a fiduciary is to attend to all that matters to the
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: whatever. The counterparty term is Doug. You probably know what that term is, but like to take care of them, and and you're violating fiduciary duty if you don't attend to all relevant risks that concern them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which is why the
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Texas and Florida proposed laws to instruct fiduciaries to violate fiduciary duty is really cuckoo stuff.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And that's the norm. Yeah, that ken. That's the norm in the thinking that everybody is in. But the law, I think, allows for different moves. And certainly the money is moving in that direction. The economic benefits of employee ownership are strikingly clear.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The deal structure is a complicated issue, because you no longer have just, you know, owners and investors, you have owners and investors and the larger employee pool of owners. So how you build the stack?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's not trivial, but it's doable
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah. And
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I mean, Mitch just shared with me a new way of even creating establishing legalities. It's gonna take a long time. And there are people are going to actually have to work hard at it, and we might not see it even in our lifetime. But I do see.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Like.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I mean, people are working hard on it, and Montagon is a great case in point, because it's a proof that something is possible at scale. This is not just your neighborhood food Co-OP. This is, you know, what is it? Like? 80,000 employees in a multi-billion dollar corporation? That's significant economic force in Spain
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: proves that something is possible.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah. And so if we start instead of isolating ourselves in our in our abilities, I think we're kind of conditioned to work on our own thing and and start connecting dots, I think, especially just visualizing the dots as they are. And what could be, I think, visualizing data in itself really does inspire.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Doug Breitbart: There are I, at least in the the world, that I'm traveling in these days.
Doug Breitbart: There are folks very much doing that. There's sort of operating at a meta level.
Doug Breitbart: Of individual initiatives. That I I. The the
Doug Breitbart: metaphor I I invoke is is that it's it's a mosaic of efforts.
Doug Breitbart: and each piece of the mosaic
Doug Breitbart: is very focused and and energized and extended
Doug Breitbart: in their piece of the mosaic
Doug Breitbart: but a lot of those pieces do form, start to coalesce
Doug Breitbart: an ecosystem, start to coalesce and network, start to coalesce an organism
Doug Breitbart: that operates by principles and service to life
Doug Breitbart: operates by principles and service to
Doug Breitbart: resource and value flows rather than currency. Centric.
Doug Breitbart: A lot of those folks are also practicing different and and transformative.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It was moving forward.
Doug Breitbart: Organizational approaches management decision making consent process
Doug Breitbart: models and approaches that are not the norm. I as an attorney.
Doug Breitbart: I practice unlaw.
Doug Breitbart: which means that I start with what folks want to achieve and create, and how they want to work.
Doug Breitbart: and then I help, modify, adapt, plug, and and and create
Doug Breitbart: a mosaic orientation approach to how they
Doug Breitbart: interface with the legal systems, requirements, regulations, and and all that.
Doug Breitbart: and rather than the other way around.
Doug Breitbart: And there is a lot of creative possibility and flexibility.
Doug Breitbart: For the most part, the legal profession
Doug Breitbart: doesn't know how to do that, because they've never actually sat on the side of the entrepreneur, or the cooperative or the collaborative.
Doug Breitbart: so they don't understand what's needed or desired
Doug Breitbart: as a practical operating rubber meets the road reality.
Doug Breitbart: and so their their only palette is the post office of what what you do, for what situation, and it's always fitting the situation to the, to the practice and to the structure or or model.
Doug Breitbart: And
Doug Breitbart: that's not a good thing to have defining and controlling and imposed on the way people co-create together.
Doug Breitbart: It's not fit for for use, and the principal reason is because the legal system is not in service to people co-creating and connecting and flowing together. It's created in service to defining
Doug Breitbart: what is the penalty or consequence for breaching whatever the agreement or regulatory scheme is that's operating. So it's a penalty. System. It's not a generative creative system.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Well, I love the unlaw. It's like unschooling notion I would. And if you wanted to talk about it later, I would love to.
Doug Breitbart: You and I. You and I are destined. We we haven't figured out yet, but I am still headed your way in my heart so like. Yes.
Doug Breitbart: thank you. I would do that. We have.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I would love to map the Mondragon, the Mondragon partnership model for our cooperative vision. So, and using, you know, unlaw is just a beautiful prospect so. And we'd like to do it in a place based version. So by zip code. So we are mapping it
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: place based. So thank you. I'm looking forward.
Klaus Mager: I see an interesting shift in in sentiments, you know, in the community. Bent is attracting a lot of
Klaus Mager: well off retirees now from California, from from Washington, and so on, because it's a quick place to retire. And so there's a lot of money floating in, but not just money, but talent, you know.
Klaus Mager: So I I got called into a meeting with business Oregon, which is a state organization, a State agency, and that their mission is to direct the investment of the govern of the State government, not to build, to build, infrastructure, to do things, and
Klaus Mager: so I said, well, let me just give you an example. And I did a gap analysis for the food system in the high desert
Klaus Mager: and and developed a stack of here the top 5 investments that would really move the needle in the local food system in the farm to market food system. And here is the infrastructure that's missing. And here the investment points right? And so that resulted in a meeting with the Director of Edco, which is the economic development organization for Oregon and
Klaus Mager: the director of Usda for World development. And so a couple of investors.
Klaus Mager: So I got a call last week. And I and I met with a retired salesforce executive
Klaus Mager: and the guy is really, you know, sort of a high powered character. And and he's basically saying, What do you need? Where do we start now? What are what are we gonna do here? And so there is. There is a recognition in in the
Klaus Mager: sort of retired business community or or in in the support organizations that you know what we gotta do something here locally, because.
Klaus Mager: you know you, you're looking in in my entire focus is on base of economy. That was my last newsletter base of economy economics theory, right? Which means that
Klaus Mager: some 15% in the Us. Of the population lives paycheck to paycheck can't handle their $500 emergency and are getting increasingly squeezed.
Klaus Mager: So when you look at not taking one trillion dollars out of the economy that is serving basically this base of economy, a base of pyramid economy that has serious impacts at the community level. We already see the local food bank getting swamped. And so
Klaus Mager: the the challenge really is the opportunity right now really is
Klaus Mager: that you have people who would otherwise see if they want to buy another boat, or you know what trip they're going on next. All of a sudden sort of shift their calendar and see, you know, where's the action? Where can I meaningfully engage here? And the the key issue, you know that's missing is a common vision.
Klaus Mager: Now it's it's a it's a picture of what could be where you could go. And so I see this as and this is where AI can really kick in right? Because you can really use a well curated AI to create a very localized vision of of what is possible in this community based on the socioeconomic conditions that are around you.
Klaus Mager: So I'm actually quite excited about this. I told him. You know he goes, what? What would be a good project, I said. Why don't we do a pilot here in bend
Klaus Mager: and see and and showcase what could be done, you know, if you really engage, and you start at food, because that's where the pain point is and and where the pain point is almost instantly, you know, hitting us, because 2, 3 months down the road. These monies are gone. They cut off all the crayons to the nonprofits, right? School meals, meals on wheels.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Clause. There is something going on in Bend already that is very cooperative and very. There's a whole movement already, so I'll connect you with that person there. So let's let. I don't want to reinvent wheels here. I want to like leverage. The bright spots that are already been
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: are on its way, and.
Klaus Mager: Absolutely. Yeah, thanks.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Yeah. Awesome.
Klaus Mager: Yeah. So so I think that's happening in every community.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Think so.
Klaus Mager: Perfect.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Connect the communities because there are so many different efforts going on, and people would kind of still decentralized in their efforts. And then someone gets excited and they start their own version. And we have to have open door policy between all of these ideas. And so it's not like another login.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: you know.
Klaus Mager: And the AI gives you an opportunity to collect best practice examples from around the country.
Klaus Mager: But so when you, when you have a well curated. AI, if you are in any community, anywhere in the country and and you feed in, here's my condition. Here. Here is what we are, what we're living with the AI can say, well, these guys in this city did that, you know. That seems to be so. So when you, when you can bring together these best
Klaus Mager: practice scenarios. And then there are some underlying commonalities, structures right building a local currency. There are certain things that
Klaus Mager: that that anybody could use now if if if the information became available and you can use AI, you don't have not to build papers. And you know, Google documents. And all this stuff. You can have the AI actually inform you and talk you through it now. So that, I think, is is going to be a really powerful opportunity to to deploy.
Klaus Mager: Now we're all quiet.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's okay. Quiet's okay.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: My mom 30 years ago, said.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: there will be one car version of a car, one version of of a house.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And it's so weird because it kind of has come true.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And I I almost feel like there's a sense that there is a a coming together.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: a converging property of both worlds.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: it's it's it's an interesting thing to even look at in this. We are alive at this like change.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and I feel so incredibly
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: thankful that I'm in this transition. And I also, I'm like thinking, what is our what are our children going to do with this?
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: We got to give them the right tools and
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and know how to use them properly. But
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: what you know we have what 15 min left on the call, and I'm curious about
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: our ability to focus and our ability to.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: you know, converge and diverge at the same time, and passing the baton on to our children, what what can we do?
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I think it's really going to have to come down to focusing
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and deciding how to work together versus in a decentralized fashion.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I get on these calls for years. I listen to everyone's thing that they're working on.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and I'm just confused.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: By. Why, we're not collaborating more effectively amongst this particular group.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I'd like to challenge us to do that. It's not like we all have to work on the same thing.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: but we can generate a more collaborative approach
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: just by even like sharing operational burden.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: because that seems like the biggest thing that has us.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Our barriers to entry as you will can. Our own personal barriers to success is operational burden, and if we're all trying to do with the operations alone, the administrative costs, you know we could share some of that stuff.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Klaus Mager: Stacy, what place are you in right now?
Stacey Druss: What place? What do you mean by the word place?
Klaus Mager: From this conversation. Where did this put you.
Stacey Druss: Honestly, I already have a membrane around me.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, so it didn't put me anywhere. I'm I feel Jesse's frustration.
Stacey Druss: I no longer let it affect me so. I'm kind of apathetic.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh!
Stacey Druss: Over.
Stacey Druss: Thank you for asking, though.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I liked the silence.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm reminded of Jerry's reminiscence reminiscences about Quaker meetings.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But the silence sometimes goes on a long time until someone's moved to speak.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So for me, it was very refreshing, because it's so rare
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: in the online life that we share together.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Jesse, I really appreciate what you said about
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: the you know what you're feeling is the missed opportunities for collaboration among us.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Let me say 2 things. I'm not drawn to what I think you're implying.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: because I'm full up on projects and don't need another project.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and so don't want to take on a project for us to do together, particularly although I'm open to changing my mind if something amazing comes, you know, gets dropped on the table. But that's not what I'm looking for. On the one hand, on the other hand, I did an audit a few weeks ago of my online time, and it was ridiculous the amount of time I'm spending in Zoom Meetings of various kinds, and I've decided to prune them way down.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And this is one that I'm keeping.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So there's a kind of collaboration that this is that I really value, and that I'm committed to.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: This is one of 2, 2, or maybe 3 that are that are locked in, not to be, you know, not to be lost, and a lot of the others have gone away. So
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I feel that the sharing that we for me, the sharing that we do here is very collaborative and enriching.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and you know I take notes, and I sometimes pull pieces of writing out of the things that we've talked about here. So I appreciate that. And I guess the 3rd thing, which is that maybe
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: in in the 400 people that are on your platform. I don't know how many of them are Ogm people, but maybe we could all pop in there
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and do whatever profiling of needs and offers that you have. You know that you have receptor sites for
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and see if something emerges from that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and I'd I'd be willing to do that.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I love that idea because we have quite a few on there. So let's definitely
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: do that offline for sure, Gil, and also not doing the same project. I
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I live alone together with my. I'm getting married this Sunday. Been with my partner for 7 years.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Congratulations.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's the rush.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: And we own our own homes, and we live apart together.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: I really see I live that. And I think that can be translated over to business
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and nonprofits where we're living. We're we're doing work alone together.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: You have to be the same, but but it
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: does need to have the same kind of operational excellence.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: and maybe some principles that that we all agree on. So that we continue to like, go back to that. And I think we can create. We have incredible brains here. I think we can create
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: a small little Mondragon thing that ends up modeling something great.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Jesse, I invite you, or maybe you and your pet AI to draft something very short
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: about what working alone together might be.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Hmm! I.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I like the provocation of living alone together, working together. Yeah. So just spin it up a little bit more. Not a lot, not a manifesto like a paragraph. Okay, a sentence, 100 words. So something really tight that conveys the spirit of what you're carrying here.
Mike Nelson: If if I can push back a little bit on Jesse, when when you say that we're not collaborating, I I find this to be a very collaborative space 5 min at a time.
Mike Nelson: and I'm probably the one who abuses the wisdom of this crowd most, because I'm constantly saying, Hey, I'm doing a paper on this. Who are the 3 people I need to talk to? I think at the top of the hour I said, Hey, I'm going to Taipei and the Philippines, who knows something about the culture and the people? What is it that I have to really watch out for? If I
Mike Nelson: want to have the full experience.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: My, my.
Mike Nelson: It gets great feedback. The other thing that a true collaboration can do very effectively is.
Mike Nelson: let people know when they're about to do something stupid.
Mike Nelson: That's an incredibly source of feedback. And again.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I mean.
Mike Nelson: 5 min is often all it takes. Some of these check-ins.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah. No.
Mike Nelson: Enabled me to say, Well, this is what I'm thinking, and I read this thing, which seems really good, and then somebody comes back and says, No.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And Mike Mike.
Mike Nelson: Year.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You. You may think you're abusing this this space for me. You feed me every time, so thank you.
Mike Nelson: Well, thank you, but I will continue to ask a few questions and get lots of great feedback. It's a great, a great form, but, as far as you know, getting everybody involved in one project, I think that's not what this group's for in my mind, speaking of creativity, it's Ken Homer, poem, Tom poem, time.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Hmm.
Klaus Mager: Yeah.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Or we should get somebody else to do it.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: 5 min on the call, I mean, I'm happy to go. We're ready to end space to the folks.
Doug Breitbart: I'd love to. I'd love to throw something in response to Jesse's call call to action. So
Doug Breitbart: the challenge is I.
Doug Breitbart: These are these are sort of the touch points.
Doug Breitbart: The challenge to me is is the the lack
Doug Breitbart: of a kind of universal interoperability.
Doug Breitbart: You know it takes. It's taken several years for me as an individual
Doug Breitbart: to get to apply, I'm add. So my executive function didn't kick into like 5 years ago. I'm coming up on 70. So like, I'm just beginning to be able to use tools that most normal mortals like
Doug Breitbart: I've been using for decades to work with and coordinate with others, and each person has different aptitudinal dimensions. So one person is a gantt chart person, and that makes me like completely want to kill somebody, and I'm a gantt. You know, I'm a gantt, and they're a Kanban person. And like. So there's there's all of those technological
Doug Breitbart: intangible diversities just between a group, you know people working together collaboratively on a thing.
Doug Breitbart: and then you, then you have
Doug Breitbart: varying degrees and levels of ego attachment to mine rather than transcendent of that
Doug Breitbart: all for 1, 1 for all. Hey? I'm doing this, and I figured that out. And you're doing that. And you figure this out, you know you can learn from me, and I can learn from you, and we can, you know.
Doug Breitbart: flow together to mutual benefit, and that sort of concatenates up into
Doug Breitbart: different orgs, and different, you know, cooperatives working together, not
Doug Breitbart: on the same thing, but being connected and flowing between.
Doug Breitbart: and that that and and Stacey invoked the term membrane. And I think that's really, really on point, that
Doug Breitbart: Circumstantially, people working together usually at the event horizon, that most of
Doug Breitbart: that you're existing, that I'm existing that most of my clients and projects and partners are existing.
Doug Breitbart: It's all we can do to keep doing us.
Doug Breitbart: and that tends to form a membrane as boundary and limitation, based on time, based on resource, based on capacity
Doug Breitbart: to do more, and making the membranes more porous, if not dissolving them all together
Doug Breitbart: has a lot to do with ownership
Doug Breitbart: and and transcending the ownership meme transcending the mind, and and
Doug Breitbart: the most liberating and powerful thing in connection with that
Doug Breitbart: that it took for me to lose that completely
Doug Breitbart: with severing the quid pro quo
Doug Breitbart: something for something. I don't offer my services on a transactional basis.
Doug Breitbart: If somebody knocks and I can help, and it's in my spot, then I'm in service, too.
Doug Breitbart: and how I meet my needs is my own business, my own inquiry, and I live based on an appreciation economy. So people that appreciate me whether it's being in the world or whether it's helping them directly with a thing, or whether it's whatever you know
Doug Breitbart: it comes from them going, you know
Doug Breitbart: I really value, appreciate you. Thank you for your help. And how can I reciprocate? That's not a transaction.
Doug Breitbart: It's a whole different orientation.
Doug Breitbart: And what it's what it did. Was it freed me of
Doug Breitbart: ownership, and it freed me of scarcity and and fear, and worrying about being in service.
Doug Breitbart: and and that transcending that
Doug Breitbart: is not for the weak of heart and the common man
Doug Breitbart: in the system we're living in. It is really really hard for people
Doug Breitbart: to let go of the fear and the scarcity and the concern about, how am I, gonna
Doug Breitbart: you know, survive?
Doug Breitbart: And I think that's the biggest opera in preventing the kind of open flow that you're inviting.
Doug Breitbart: But I'm in support of. I'm a card carrying believer, member of that, and and
Doug Breitbart: I'm down. You can count me in.
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: You talk.
Klaus Mager: Thank you. I think we all have been on a journey. How long have we been doing this? I was there from the start. Gene actually connected me with this Jerry. And that's been about 6 years, I mean, how long have we been doing this?
Klaus Mager: And and I think we've all been on a journey, I mean, I most so most certainly had an opportunity to go because of all the connections within. Ogm. So I'm like, you know, hugely thankful and just like gilt. You know, this is the one item that's on my on my calendar, you know. That's the one meeting I don't want to miss.
Klaus Mager: Okay? Ken, yeah, I think we're ready for for you.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Hey? This is a poem called American Funeral, by Greg Kimura.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: He sits in a raft in a river with no water
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: that winds through sandstone canyons and green valleys. Before passing through the gates of heaven, the old raft, a sunken coat of flesh
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: that once ripped up huge chunks of Stanford Stadium turf at left tackle class of 1949
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: that once built tuna fish sandwiches for church youth, groups that made sloppy, wet love to an appreciative life now lays boxed in the ground.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: but he sits alone in a raft, waiting
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: waters that could have carried him down the river, lie locked inside Protestant bodies, maintaining an unfortunate sense of dignity, decorum, and strength. Oceans of roiling grief sit in the pews requiring release. But we have forgotten how to do this in the old days we knew how to prepare and anoint the old raft for its journey.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: knew how to create the ritual that released the sacred storms that sent him on his way.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: and as much as he needed our tears and as much as we needed to weep. But today our grief lies embedded in our bodies, and we carry them out into the world, where they come out later in ways not so elegant or beautiful or as necessary as tears.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: and he sits in a raft in a river with no water.
Klaus Mager: Hmm.
Doug Breitbart: Hmm.
Klaus Mager: Thank you. Everybody.
Doug Breitbart: Thank you.
Mike Nelson: And Klaus, thanks for rising to the occasion and providing the little bit of glue that makes one of these discussions work.
Klaus Mager: Thank you. Alright!
Jessie Upp DayBalancer.com: Thank you.
Stacey Druss: Bye.